Artificial intelligence (AI) has revolutionized information
technology. The new economy of information technology
has shaped the way we are living. Recently, AI algorithms
have attracted close attention of researchers and have also
been applied successfully to solve problems in engineering.
Nevertheless, for large and complex problems, AI algorithms
consume considerable computation time due to stochastic
feature of the search approaches. Therefore, there is a potential requirement to develop efficient algorithm to find solutions under the limited resources, time, and money in realworld applications. This special issue aims to report the latest
advances in every aspect of artificial intelligence technology,
including machine learning, data mining, computer vision,
multiagent systems, evolutionary computation, and fuzzy
logic.
The special issue received 142 high quality submissions
from different countries all over the world. All submitted
papers followed the same standard (peer-reviewed by at
least three independent reviewers) as applied to regular
submissions to Mathematical Problems in Engineering. Due
to the limited space, 57 papers were finally included. The
primary guideline was to demonstrate the most significant
developments on the topics of AI and to apply AI algorithms
in real-life scenarios.
In the paper entitled “Solving two-dimensional HP model
by firefly algorithm and simplified energy function,” Y. Zhang
et al. investigate traditional energy function and point out
that its discrete property cannot give direction of the next step
to the searching point, causing a challenge to optimization
algorithms. Therefore, they introduce the simplified energy
function to turn traditional discrete energy function to a
continuous one. The simplified energy function totals the
distance between all pairs of hydrophobic amino acids. To
optimize the simplified energy function, they introduce the
latest swarm intelligence algorithm, the firefly algorithm
(FA). The experiments take 14 sequences of different chain
lengths from 18 to 100 as the dataset and compare the
FA with standard genetic algorithm and immune genetic
algorithm. Each algorithm runs 20 times. The averaged
energy convergence results show that FA achieves the lowest
values. It concludes that it is effective to solve 2D HP model
by the FA and the simplified energy function.
In the paper entitled “Fault diagnosis for wireless sensor
by twin support vector machine,” M. Ding et al. propose a
novel fault diagnosis method for wireless sensor technology
by twin support vector machine (TSVM) in order to improve
the diagnosis accuracy of wireless sensor. Twin SVM is a
binary classifier that performs classification by using two
nonparallel hyperplanes instead of the single hyperplane
used in the classical SVM. However, the parameter setting
in the TSVM training procedure significantly influences
the classification accuracy. Their study introduces PSO as
an optimization technique to simultaneously optimize the
TSVM training parameter. 